If you want your system to handle high read traffic, then use Cache. 
Because, in such scenario, Databases become bottleneck.

Cache: It is a fast, temporary storage. Stores copies of data for quick reads.

If you want to build a scalable system, Cache is essential. They reduce load on the database and cut latency. 
Challenges of using Cache: 
- Invalidation 
- Failure handling

Trade-offs of storing data in cache: 
- Memory is limited. It needs to have eviction policies. we can't fit whole dataset in cache.

The most common usage of Cache is between application and database. But there are other places where we can place cache.
1. External cache.
  It is a standalone cache service that your application talks to over a network.

  Why to use?
  We store frequently accessed data in something like Redis or Memcached so you do not have to hit the database every time.

  How it works?
  Here, every application server talks to the same cache. So, the external caches scale well. 
  They support eviction policies like LRU and expiration via TTL

  When to use? 
  1. Use for almost every design which has high read requirement.

2. Content Delivery Network (CDN)
  It is a geographically distributed network of servers that caches content close to the users.

  Why to use?
  Instead of every request travelling to the origin server, a CDN stores copies of the content at edge servers around the world.
  Eg: Cloudfare, Fastly, Akamai
  Uses: Media delivery, Static content, HTML

  How it works?
  1. User requests for an image
  2. Request is sent to CDN edge server
  3. If image is present, it is returned. 
  4. If not, it is fetched from origin server, stored in edge server and then returned.
  5. From now on, if any other users requests the same image, it is fetched from the CDN edge server.

  When to use?
  1. Use only when your system needs static media at scale.

3. Client-side caching:
  It is about storing data close to the requestor to avoid any network calls - like, user's device, browser, on-device storage.
  It can also mean caching within a client's library.

  Why to use?

Cache architectures or cache patterns: 
1. Cache aside
    application checks the cache. if found returns it. if not, fetch from database, store it in cache, return it.
    Here, application is fully responsible for keeping the DB and Cache in sync.
    When to use? 
    - this is used in most of the cases.
    Advantage:
    - only caches data when needed, which keeps cache lean.

    Downside? 
    - cache miss can cause extra latency.
    - cache might not have the most up-to-date information.


    Write scenario: 
    1. Update DB, delete from cache.(delete-on-write)
    2. Update DB, update Cache. (update-on-write)
        Both DB and Cache have updated data immediately. No extra DB call from the next request.
    3. Update DB. forget about Cache.
        In this case, Cache continues to serve stale data until TTL.

    The tradeoff of using delete-on-write approach is safety under concurrent writes, but pay one extra DB read after every write.

    Important: 
    - the order of DB writes and Redis writes may differ.
    - If stale data is present in Cache, then damage persists for the entire TTL duration.
        

2.  write-through-caching
    application writes to cache first, which then writes to database synchronously before returning data back to the application.
    write operation does not complete until data is written to both cache and database.

    But this requires a caching library or a framework to do the sync data processing.

    when to use? 
    - use when reads must always return fresh data.
    - and if system can tolerate slightly slower writes.

    Advantage? 

    Downside?
    - slower writes (because, applicaton has to wait for both cache and db update to happen)
    - if either one succeeds and the other one fails, data will be inconsistent. We might need retry logic, error handling etc.

3. write-behind-caching
    application writes data only to cache. cache asynchronously updates data in db.

    when to use? 
    - used when occasional data loss is acceptable.
    - use when high write throughput and eventual consistency is acceptable - such as in analytics and data pipelines.

    use case: 
    - analytics and metrics pipelines.

    Advantage? 

    Downside? 
    - if cache crashes before flushing data to DB, you risk data loss.

4. read through caching.
    here, cache acts as a proxy. 
    application reads data from cache. if data is not found, cache fetches data from database, stores the data and returns it.


    when to use? 

    use case:
    - used in CDS's, where data is read from CDN edge server and if data is not found, edge server fetches data from DB, stores it and returns it.

    Advantage? 

    Downside? 
    - requires caching library or framework

Eviction policies: 
  Data in Cache is stored in Memory (RAM) rather than disk (in case of database). 
  Memory is limited, and it cannot store the entire dataset.
  That's why we need eviction policies. 
  So, we need a strategy to decide what to keep and what to remove.

  different types of policies: 
  - LRU (least recently used) - evicts items that haven't been accessed in longest time. (implemented by linked list or priority queue that tracks the access order)
    when to use? 
    - used most commonly.
  - LFU (least frequently used) - evicts items that are used least often, even if they are used recently.
    when to use? 
    - when few items are read way more than others.
  - FIFO - evicts the oldest item first.
    when to use? 
  - TTL - each item expires after a set time. used for data that can go stale.
    when to use? 
    - used when freshness really matters than recent data or frequency.

Challenges of using cache: 
- Thundering herd: 
  if cache is evicted at a certain time and if a huge volume of reqeusts arrive at the same time, they all try to query from DB at the same time to update data in DB. 
  Stampede here: many requests hitting database at the same time.
  As db connections are limited, what if we get 10,000 parallel Db queries? Resources would get exhausted and performance will be degraded.
  DB connections are limited because, each connection has Memory, CPU and thread resources.

  HOW TO SOLVE IT? 
    - Request coalescing:
      Also called as single-flight pattern.
      Allow only one request to re-build the cache while others wait for the result. This is a solution for cache stampede problem.

- Cache consistency:
  Most commonly discussed problems in system design.
  That happens when cache and database return different values for the same data.
  it happens because most systems read from cache and write to database and it creates a window where cache still holds the data.

  Solutions to fix cache consistency:
  - Cache invalidation on writes: delete cache entry after updating the database so it gets re-populated with fresh data.
  - Accept eventual consistency.
  
- Hot keys: 
  A hot key is a cache entry that receives huge amount of traffic compared to every one else.

  How to figure out which cache entry is a hot key?
  - 

  Solutions to fix hot keys: 
  - Replicate hot keys:
    Store the same value in multiple nodes and do load balance between them.
  - Apply rate limiting:
    slow down abusive traffic patterns.

When to bring caching in interviews?
  - when dealing with read heavy workloads.
    like, when you have 10M DAU and each user making 20 request/day, that's 200M queries to the database. That will be 20-50 milliseconds per query.
    But when we use cache, it drops to 2 milliseconds per query.
  - when dealing with expensive queries ( where we interact with multiple tables to return the data).
  - high database CPU 
  - latency requirements: If we have to return response in sub-10milliseconds. Database queries are taking 30-50 ms, and we have to cache.

How to introduce caching:
  1. identify the bottlenecks
    point to specific problem cache would solve.
  2.  decide what to cache
    not everything needs to be cached.
  3.  choose your cache architecture.
    if you need strong consistency: use write-through (writing to cache and then cache writes to database, only then write operation is success).
    if you have high write frequency and can tolerate some risk: use write-behind caching (write to cache and cache writes to DB asynchronously)
    if you are serving too much static content: use CDN caching.
  4.  set eviction policies.
    LRU cache is common, and it is included with TTL (for example: user profiles).
  5. downsides of using caching.
    - cache invalidation: How to keep data in cache fresh? Do you want to invalidate on writes, or set TTL or accept eventual consistency?
    - what happens when cache fails? does the database gets hammered down? we add circuit breakers to prevent cache stampede.  
    - what happens when a popular cache entry expires and 1000 requests try to fetch the data simultaneously? - use request coalescing.
  

Redis:
  Redis cluster - a group of Redis nodes/servers.
  Redis node - A Redis server instance that is part of a cluster.
               Redis process running inside a machine (server) or a container.
               Each node has its own memory, port number, stores part of the data, talks to other nodes.
  If there are multiple nodes, then how does Redis cluster store data? 
    It makes use of Sharding. 
    Sharding: dividing dataset into multiple partitions and distributing across multiple nodes.
    Shard: A single logical partition


 This is the real stampede.

Why is this bad?

Because:

DB connections are limited

CPU spikes

Disk IO increases

Query queue grows

Entire system slows down 
connection pooling - consider a pool of size 50. All of those 50 requests reuse the same connection.
  
