CAP theorem

  Consistency: All users see same data at the same time.
  Availability: System will be available/continues to operate even when parts of it fail.
  Partition tolerance: System works despite network failures between nodes.

  System can have only 2 of the above 3. 
  Consistency over Availability ? - choose only one.

STRONG CONSISTENCY: 
  All clients always see the same, most recent value after a write. 

  Consider a situation: 
  An online platform has users in all countries and servers in all countries as well.
  User A writes to a server in Region A.
  User B wants to see the same ticket and his request goes to server in Region B.

  If there is a network issue while replicating data between Region A and Region B, we would have below options:
  1. Stop serving data (affects Consistency)
  2. Risk wrong data (affects Availability)

  Examples where we need strong consistency:
  1. Ticket booking platforms (Airline, Event etc.)
      If we sell a ticket, everyone needs to see the ticket as unavailable, without any delay.
  2. Inventory system (Amazon etc.)
      Can't sell the same last item to multiple customers.
  3. Financial systems 
      Stock trades must be executed in a strict order.

  For above examples, we need a 'single globally agreed state at all times'. 
  1. One system of Record
  2. All transactions go through a leader node.
  3. Synchronous replications 
  4. Locks (When account A is being debited, system acquires a lock on that account)

  Even if a bank has servers in many countries, there is always primary authoritative ledger (often in the headquarter region).
  And, all the writes happen to that primary server.
  And, the local servers have read replicas/cache/edge services (to ensure faster queries and faster user experience).

  Eg: If you withdraw $200 from your account, it will be updated in the main ledger in USA. (when you are withdrawing money from India).   
      But your mobile banking app might still be showing your old balance for a few seconds (as it will be reading from a local replica and the sync may not have happened yet)

  If banks try to synchronize every display read, then viewing balance could take time.
  So, banks will use Strong consistency for writes and Eventual consistency for Reads.
  Because, reading from a local replica is faster, cheaper and scalable.

  And, even if transaction happens in the same country or same building that the bank is present, 
  Writes always go to the main ledger and Reads often come from Replicas. 
  This is done for 
  a. Performance.
  b. Scalability.
  c. Fault tolerance.

  Why not always read from the primary ledger ? 
  1. Because, millions of users open banking apps at the same time.
  2. Reads far outnumber writes. 
  3. Hitting the primary ledger for every read would overload it.


  Here, latency is accepted. Because in banking, correctness is more important than speed. (even if there is cross-region network latency)

Where is strong consistency ideal? 
  1. Banking 
  2. Ticket sales
  3. Inventory

CAUSAL CONSISTENCY: 
  Only the operations that are causally related are seen in the same order by everyone. Unrelated operations may be seen in different order. 
  It preserves cause-and-effect, but doesn't force a single global order for everything.
  For chat applications. 
    cause-and-effect must be preserved within the same chat.
    Alice: Hey
    Bob: Hi

    Here, both Alice and Bob has to see Hey -> Hi. 

  For chat applications, we don't want Strong consistency. 
  Because, if we enforce Strong consistency, meaning "All messages in all chats must be seen in the same global order". -> and this works only for banks, tickets etc. 
  And below would be the problems: 
  1. Messaging would slow down.
  2. Every message would require global co-ordination.
  3. One slow region would delay all other chats.

  Eg: You are chatting with Alice in one window and with Bob in another window. 
  Chat A messages can be delivered without waiting for chat B messages.


| Feature                                    | Banking                      | WhatsApp Chat                    |
| ------------------------------------------ | ---------------------------- | -------------------------------- |
| Requires Strong Consistency?               | ✅ Yes                        | ❌ No                             |
| Must maintain global ordering?             | ✅ Yes                        | ❌ Only per conversation          |
| Acceptable Latency?                        | ✅ Yes (200–500 ms OK)        | ❌ No (must be sub-100 ms)        |
| Can system continue during network splits? | ❌ Usually stops writes       | ✅ Continues writing locally      |
| Why?                                       | Prevent financial corruption | Preserve speed & user experience |


  If you don't need strong consistency, then choose availability.
  Eg: Social media platforms. What if user A posts a photo and user B in another country won't see that photo instantly ? It doesn't affect that much effect, and its not a big deal when the delay is for a couple of seconds.
  These can handle data delay for couple of seconds. But in case of consistency, if a ticket is sold, then it has to be shown as sold for all the users instantly. or else, they would try to buy the same ticket.

  1. Social media apps
  2. business review services (like, Yelp)
  3. Streaming platforms (like, Netflix)

  How does choosing Consistency affect my system design ? 
  1. Implement distributed transactions
    If we have a database and a cache, we need to make sure they are strongly consistent.
    If a write happens on a database, it has to happen on cache as well. 
  2. limit to a single node.
    If its a single node, then there won't be any propagation issues.
  3. discuss consensus protocols.
  4. accept higher latency (use loaders etc.)

Why would strong consistency introduce latency across Messaging apps ? 

  To achieve Strong consistency in case of messaging apps, we need: 
  1. Propagate all the messages through a single leader node.
  2. Replicate the same message across all the replicas.
  3. All the servers have to acknowledge before showing the message as "seen". 
  
  That means, messaging app like Whatsapp has to wait until all the servers across the world have to agree.
  
  This would introduce significant latency. 

Where is causal consistency ideal? 
  1. Messaging apps.
  2. Comments and replies.
  3. Document collaboration.
  4. Social feeds.
  5. Multi-region apps.
  

READ YOUR WRITES CONSISTENCY: 
  If I change something, I should see it immediately.
  After we write or update data, we must be able to see our own update immediately, even if other users see old data for a little while.
  So, only your sessions sees the latest version.

  Eg: Whatsapp, iMessage. 
    If you send a message, it will appear in your own chat window immediately. 
    It does not wait for the server to confirm global replication.

    Other devices might see the message slightly later, that is eventual consistency. But, I always see my own updates instantly.
  Where is Read your write consistency ideal?
  1. Messaging apps.
  2. Collaborative apps.
  3. User profiles in Web apps. (Amazon, LinkedIn, Facebook user profile settings)

RYW consistency is often used together with Eventual consistency.

  How is the RYW consistency achieved ? 
    It is achieved by ensuring that the user's future reads are routed to the replica that has seen their write. 
    And, it can be done in distributed systems using below: 
  1. Session stickiness
  2. Local caching
      Client temporarily stores the writes locally.
  3. Version tracking/vector clocks
      This is used mainly in DynamoDB, Cassandra.
      Every write is tagged with a version number.    
      So when we read, the client requests at least that version, ensuring it never reads old data.

      this is how the distributed NoSQL stores use RYW consistency without making use of session stickiness.
  

| Model                               | Meaning                                 | Example                        |
| ----------------------------------- | --------------------------------------- | ------------------------------ |
| Strong Consistency              | Everyone always sees the same data      | Banking ledger                 |
| Causal Consistency              | Replies follow messages                 | WhatsApp conversation ordering |
| Eventual Consistency            | Everyone sees correct data *eventually* | Social media likes count delay |
| Read-Your-Own-Write Consistency | **You** see your updates immediately    | WhatsApp local message display |




  How Availability affects system design ? 
  1. Use multiple replicas.

But, important thing to remember is: Different parts of a system can have different requirements.
Eg: TicketMaster
1. Consistency for booking tickets. (We cannot have 2 users booking the same ticket)
2. Availability for CRUD on events. 

Eg: Tinder
1. Consistency for matching. (If user A swipes right to user B, then user B has to see that he is liked by user A instantly).
2. Availability for viewing profile data.
