1. Functional Requirements. 
  Features of the system.
  Like, users should be able to do this thing, that thing etc. 
  Prioritize the top 3 functional requirements.
  Keep your requirements targeted.
  Having a long list of requirements will harm you in the interview.

  Eg: 
  a. Users should be able to post tweets.
  b. Users should be able to follow each other.
  c. Users should be able to see tweets from users they follow.

  d. booking tickets should be of low latency.
  e. able to scale to certain number of users.

2. Non-Functional requirements:
  Qualities of the system.
  Like, System should be able to handle x requests per second etc. 
  Those are the system qualities that are important to your users.
  Prioritize top 3-5 of non-functional requirements.

  It is better when non-functional requirements are quantified. ("system should be low latency" is obvious, but "system should have low latency search < 500 ms" is meaningful)

  Eg: 
  a. System should be highly available, prioritizing availability over consistency.
  b. System should be able to scale to 100 Million DAUs.
  c. System should be low latency, rendering feeds under 200 ms.

  Ask below questions for getting the proper Non-functional requirements.

  CESL DSF

  1. CAP Theorom
    Should your system prioritize Consistency over Availability ? P stands for Partition.
  2. Environment constraints:
    Like, Are you running on a Mobile device with limited battery life or limited memory or limited bandwidth ?
  3. Scalability:
    All systems need to scale. But does this system need a unique scaling requirement ? Does it have bursty traffic at specific time of the day ? Or peak traffic during holidays ? 
    Also, consider read vs write ratio here. Does your system needs to scale reads or writes more ? 
  4. Latency:
    How quickly does the system needs to respond to user requests ? 
  5. Durability:
    How important is that the data in the system is not lost ? (A social networking application might be able to tolerate some data loss but a banking system cannot)
  6. Security:
    How secure does the system needs to be ? Consider Data Protection, Access Controls  and Compliance with regulation.
  7. Fault Tolerance:
    How well does the system needs to handle failures ? Consider Redundancy, Failover and Recovery mechanisms.
  8. Compliance:


API Design:

Product Design - User facing systems or apps (ticketmaster, bit.ly etc. )
Infra Design - Non-User facing systems (like, message queue, Rate limiter etc. )

1. Requirements
2. Core Entities 
  Entities that you will persist to DB or your API will exchange. (Eg: User, Ticket, Event etc.)
3. API or Interface
4. Data flow
5. High Level Design 
  Goal: to meet the Functional Requirements of the system
6. Deep dives
  Enhance the High Level Design
  Goal: to meet the Non-functional requirements of the system


Evaluation: 
1. Problem Solving 
  Identify and prioritize the core challenges.
  Eg: In designing a Ticketmaster, focus on booking flow and not the authentication.

2. Solution Design:
  Create scalable architecture with balanced trade-offs

3. Technical Excellence
  Demonstrate deep knowledge and expertise
  Eg: talk about specific areas where things could break

4. Communication
  Clearly explain complex concepts to stakeholders


Fundamentals:
- Storage
  
