Abstract: 
  Defines what can be done and not how.
  Eg: Stack -> It is considered as a Abstract data type. Because, it defines what operations can be performed. But it doesn't define how those operations can be done. Those operations can be done by ArrayList, LinkedList etc. 
  Analogy: Blueprint -> It defines what the building should have (doors, windows etc.)
           Building -> It defines how it's built.

Abstract data type: 
  It focuses on what operations can be performed - it is conceptual. 
  Eg: Stack, Queue, Map etc. 

API: 
  API's enable 2 software components to communicate with each other using a set of definitions and protocols.
  There are 2 main protocols - REST and GraphQL

Atomic transactions:
  It is a smallest unit of work that either completes entirely or fails entirely.
  So, if any part of the transaction fails, the system rolls back to the original state as if nothing every happened. 

  Eg: If you want to withdraw $100 from Account A, 
                     deposit $100 to Account B, 
      and if the withdrawal succeeds and the deposit fails due to some network issue, then the entire transaction must rollback, returning Account A to its original balance.

  Here, the atomic transaction is (withdrawal from Account A + Deposit to Account B).

  It is one of the four foundational properties of database transactions (ACID)

Data structure: 
  It focuses on how the data is actually stored and organized - it is about the implementation.
  Eg: ArrayList, LinkedList, HashMap etc. 

Deduplication: 
  - the same real world thing is showing up more than once, and we need it to show up exactly once.

  Three important details to look for:
  1. What makes two records the same? 
      Is it eventId, orderId or timestamp?
  2. Which copy survives? 
      Usually it will be the latest copy or the first one we ever saw or merge them non-null fields. 
  3. Where does the dedup happen?
    a. Read time: The duplicates stay in storage. Dedupe happens while retrieving.
    b. Write time: The duplicates never land in the storage.
    c. Process time: Duplicate never causes an action. 

  So when someone says to "dedupe the records" - answer these three questions - 
  a. pick a key
  b. pick a winner
  c. pick a layer

  What do they mean when they say "dedupe the records" 
  

De-serialization:

Fault tolerance: 

Latency: 

Linear data type: 
  Data elements are arranged sequentially - one after another. 
  Eg: Stack, Queue, LinkedList

Monotonic relationship:
  It describes a one directional association between two variables.
  As one variable increase, the other variable consistency increases or decreases without changing direction.

Non-Linear data type: 
  Elements branch out.
  Eg: Tree, Graph

Idempotency: 
  Performing a same request multiple times has the same effect as performing it once. End state doesn't change. 
  Retries don't change the outcome.

Performance bottlenecks:

Rate limiting: 
  It is a control mechanism that limits the number of operations that a client can perform within a given time period.

Redundancy:


Serialization: 

SubString: 
  A contiguous and non-empty sequence of characters.

State: 
  It refers to the data an object holds. 

  Changing state: 
    It means mutable state. It means the values can change as things happen over time.

  Durable state: 
    It is a state that must persist - beyond the current operation or even after a system restart.
    Eg: Order in an e-commerce system. Even if system crashes, your Order details have to be persisted somewhere, otherwise customers lose the trust and they riot.

Stack: 
  It is an Abstract data structure, which can be implemented using different data structures such as ArrayList or LinkedList. 

Stickiness: 
  It is a feature of Load balancer where it repeatedly routes traffic from client to a single destination instead of balancing traffic across multiple destinations.

Throughput: 


<>: 
  Angle Brackets
